The next one of these array methods that expects a callback is called Find find does pretty much what
it sounds like.
It finds an element it retrieves an element from an array based off of the function that we pass it.
So this function needs to return true or false.
And each time find we'll call that function with one of these elements.
And if that function returns true then it's done it will return to you the value of that element.
So it only returns one value one element that matches even if there are 10 matches in a given array.
It stops after it finds the very first one.
So here's an example.
I have an array called movies.
It has four strings.
Every movie has either Mr. or Mrs. or both in its title.
If I want to find the first movie that has these string misses in it I could do movies that find I'll
do an arrow function.
I'll call the parameter movie and this needs to be a boolean function that returns true or false.
So how do I figure out if movie contains misses.
I have a couple of ways but I'll do movie dot includes misses and I need to make sure I return this.
If I'm not going to use an implicit return and then I'll save this to a variable I'll call this concert
movie.
Let's see what happens.
We'll look at movie and it contains Mr. and Mrs. Smith.
Now movies is unchanged.
All we're doing is a simple find a search.
We're not removing or updating movies in any way.
So this function right here again has to return true or false and the first time it returns true for
a given movie and give an element find is done and it returns that movie.
So the Fantastic Mr. Fox was movie the very first time through it was plugged into this function.
It does not include misses so it returns false which means find moves on to the next element.
Mr. and Mrs. Smith that became movie movie includes Mrs..
Now is true.
Returns true.
So then find.
Stops everything.
And it returns this string right here.
If I wanted to instead find the first movie that starts with Mrs. not just includes Mrs. somewhere I
could write it as concept.
I'll just do movie 2 equals movie stop find we'll do an implicit return this time M I'll do parents
to start M that index of Mrs..
I do need to pay.
Pay attention to capitalization or down case everything.
I want that to equal one.
That would mean that Mrs..
Actually what am I saying I want equal zero.
That would mean that Mrs. comes at the very beginning of the string and that should match Mrs. Doubtfire
but not Mr. and Mrs. Smith.
So let's see if it works.
Run my code.
Movie 2 we get Mrs. Doubtfire again.
This first one was looking for anything that contained Mrs. anywhere.
We do have two matches but this one doesn't matter.
Never found because find is going to stop after the first match it returns.
Mr. and Mrs. Smith the other movies there could be a thousand other movies.
They don't get looked at.
They're passed over this error function we wrote here.
We could just do on a single line if we wanted to.
For me it's a bit long with my editor zoomed in but it's not too bad.
So this works if you want to do it that way.
Now let's do another example with a different data structure.
Here I have that box array we've been using for a couple examples.
Each book is an object.
It has a title authors which is an array and a rating.
If I wanted to find a book that had a rating greater than four point three I would do book stop find
error function.
I'll just go with B as the parameter B dot reading I can spell rating is greater than or equal to four
point three and we'll save that to a variable concept.
Good book.
Let's take a look.
Good book is bone.
The Complete Edition.
Great Graphic Novel By the way rating is four point four two.
It gave us the first match.
We could also do something like find the first book where Neil Gaiman is an author so concept.
Neil book equals book stop find b we want B.
Authors dot includes Neil Gaiman There we go.
And I think that one is good enough for one line.
It's not that long but just to have a little variety.
Let's do it with parents.
There we go.
Let's take a look.
Nail book and it gave us good moments.
The first book where he's listed as an author.
So this one doesn't matter because find only gives us the first match.
So find is really useful when you're trying to for example find something based off of an idea.
If you have a list of comments and or how about a list of posts that a user has created and they've
clicked a button to delete one of those posts if it's a web app they want to remove it when that button
is clicked.
Most likely you'll end up sending an I.D..
You'll call a function with an idea of that post.
It will be something like delete post with idea of two.
It would be something like this.
You would have a function called delete maybe delete post you'd pass in to and then you would use to
to find the post with that I.D. So you might do posts dot find for the post parameter p p dot I.D. equals
two and maybe instead of deleting you wanted to update so you would find the post and then update the
post based off of that I.D. we use find a lot especially when we're looking for something based off
of an identifier a user name.
But remember it only gives us the first match.